# Results of Kickstarter Campaign Challenge.

## Overview of Kickstarter Analysis
The purpose of this analysis was to help Louise visualize campaign outcomes for her Kickstarter campaign. In deliverable 1 we focused on helping Louise determine the number of 'sucessful', 'failed', and 'canceled' campaigns for the theater campaigns broken down by month. After filtering the data in a Pivot table to isolate these numbers, we were to create a line chart to visualize the results. In deliverable 2 our ojective was to further assist Louise by discovering the outcomes of 'successful', failed' and 'canceled' plays broken down by the goal amount to be raised. We calculated this by using the ()countifs funtion. After calculating the number of 'sucessful', 'failed', and 'canceled' plays for each goal amout range, we calculated the percent of each in relation to the total number of projects for each range. To visualize this we then created a line chart to view the trend for each month which would better assist Louise in seeing the percent of successful and canceled plays.

###Outcomes Based on Launch Date
In deliverable one our main focus was to use the data to determine the number of successful, failed and canceled theater campaigns and sort them by month. To do this we created a pivot table using the original Kickstarter sheet to extract the data. Parent category was used as one of the two filters so we could sort the table down to the theater campaigns. First sorted the rows by date with removing the years and quarters to just have the months. Next we used outcomes as the columns and removing live so we can see all completed campaigns for theater. Outcomes was also used as the value so we could see the exact number of successful, canceled, and failed campaigns. Lastly, to visualize the results, I created a line chart to help Louise visualize the results for each month and each line representing either successful, failed or canceled campaigns. With deliverable one I did not experience any challenges with using the pivot table to create a graph but one challenge that could have been had is not having the pivot table formatted correctly. By this I mean, by not having the correct IDs it the rows, columns, filters, and values sections. This would pose an issue because without the correct IDs in the correct sections, I would not have been able extract the correct data and create an easy to view graph for Louise to visualize the outcomes of theater campaigns based on their launch date.

###Outcomes based on Goals
In deliverable two our focus was to assist Louise with determining the number of successful, canceled, and failed play campaigns. Instead of using a pivot table and filters to visualize the data, I used the ()countifs equation to pull the data from the main Kickstarter sheet. Our focus this time around was to uncover the successful, failed, and canceled plays kickstarter based on goals. I pulled the data from the main sheet to create a new sheet which showed these results based on certain ranges of goals. To get the results I pulled used the goal ID as the main reference point for each column; then used the outcome to pull the data based on whether the campaign was successful, failed or canceled. After doing that I entered the range listed in the rows to pull just the campaigns that met all the critera from the goals and outcomes. After getting the numbers I added all the successful, canceled, and failed results to get the total number for each goal range. After the total was found for each goal range, I then calculated the percentage of each and created a graph to better help Louise visualize the percent of successful vs canceled campaigns for each goal range. One challenge I faced while doing deliverable two was with the final goal range of 50000 or more. My issue was when graphing the results the data did not match up to the results. The issue was that I just tried to copy and paste the equation from the goal of 1000 or less into each cell of the 50000 or more range. After viewing it I realized that I actually put less than 50000 instead of greater than 50000 as my goal range within the ()countif equation. After fixing this the data matched up and the graph was corrected to show the accurate info.

##Results of Kickstarter Campaign
After helping helping Louise better understand her Kickstarter campaign there are multiple conclusions that can be drawn. One conclusion that can be seen is that the most successful month for Theater campaigns specifically is May. This can be seen in two different ways while working through the challenge. The first way this was found was through creating the pivot table. After using the correct data for the rows, columns, filters, and values, it can be seen that May had the most number of sucessful campaigns compared to the other months. Another conclusion that can be drawn is that as the summer goes on, it is less and less likey that a theater campaign will be successful. Though the number of failed campaigns for theaters does not increase as the summer months pass, you can see in the graph that the number of successful campaigns does go down. This could attest to the possibilty that there are less theater campaigns in the summer months.
One conclusion that can be made about the Outcomes based on goals for the plays campaigns is that the campaigns with the goal of 4500-49999 were the least successful being that 100% of the campaigns failed. This data point can also be viewed as an outlier for multiple reasons. One reason is that it is the only range that completely failed, possibly because there was only one campaign in that range which is another reason it could be an outlier. 
Some of the limitations of the data set are that we just focused on specific data points related to certain campaign types. By this I mean the limitation was that we focused on just the successful, failed, and canceled campaigns based on goals and start dates for two sub categories. Though this does help Louise better understand certain parts of her campaign it does not give her the full picture. It would be time consuming to try and help Louise visualize the data for all the subcategories in regards to more than just outcome based on launch date and goals, it would help give her a better understanding of her how all campaigns are doing.
As just mentioned helping Louise visualize more data points will help her achieve a better understanding of her overall campaign. One good way to help visualize in real time how the campaign is doing is by adding live campaigns in with successful, failed, and canceled campaigns. By adding this and viewing outcomes based on what has been pledged would show the campaigns are doing or have done. This would be done with other subcateogries which would give Louise the ability at this point to compare subcategories against others and see which subcategories are more successful than others.
